.TH ASP 1 "May, 1992" 
.SH NAME
asp \- ASpecT parser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asp
[-q][-m#] file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I asp
is the ASpecT parser. It parses specifications 
written in the algebraic specification language ASpecT for subsequent
translation with the ASpecT program translator 
.I sc.
.I asp
is usually called by
the ASpecT program generator (
.I gen
). It reads the intermediate file with suffix
.I .AS0
which contains the syntactic tree and the intermediate file with suffix
.I .IMP
containing the imports of that module and generates  
an internal file with
.I .AS1
suffix. While parsing the informations of the imported files are read from
the respective
.I .AS1
files. Therefore
.I asp
assumes them to be parsed before.

.SS OPTIONS

.TP
.B -q 
minimizes program messages.

.TP
.B -m
while checking the type of an expression, the possibilities may exceed all
bounds due to exhaustive usage of overloading and subtyping. Find out the
right possibility may be very time consuming for a developer. It would be
much better to declare the type of certain problematic expressions to speed
up the parsing time. To cope with this problem the parser stops at a certain
amount of possibilities (default is -m40) and states an error.


.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B file.AS0
ASpecT intermediate file (syntax tree)
.TP
.B file.IDS
ASpecT intermediate file (identifier)
.TP
.B file.IMP
ASpecT intermediate file (imports)
.TP
.B file.AS1
ASpecT intermediate file (semantic tree)
.PD 1
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gen(1),
.BR sc(1),
.SH "REFER"
Joern von Holten, ASpecT System Reference Manual
