\input amigatexinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
\input texinfo
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename objam.info
@settitle ObjectiveAmiga
@iftex
@afourpaper
@end iftex
@finalout
@comment %**end of header

@c @setchapternewpage odd

@titlepage
@sp 5
@center @titlefont{The ObjectiveAmiga package}
@sp 4
@center An Objective C environment for AmigaOS
@sp 4
@center Release 0.2
@sp 4
@center Copyleft 1994-1995 by Stefan Zeiger
@end titlepage

@ifinfo
@center ****************************************

@center The ObjectiveAmiga package

@center An Objective C environment for AmigaOS

@center Release 0.2

@center Copyleft 1994-1995 by Stefan Zeiger

@center ****************************************

@end ifinfo

@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter License
@comment **********************************************************************

ObjectiveAmiga is based on the GNU Objective C runtime system which comes
with GNU CC 2.5.8. ObjectiveAmiga is subject to the same license conditions
as the GNU CC 2.5.8 Objective C runtime:

ObjectiveAmiga  is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under  the  terms  of  the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later version.

ObjectiveAmiga  is  distributed  in  the  hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You  should  have  received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with ObjectiveAmiga; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

As  a special exception, if you link this library with files compiled with
GCC  to produce an executable, this does not cause the resulting executable to
be covered by the GNU General Public License.  This exception does not however
invalidate  any  other reasons why the executable file might be covered by the
GNU General Public License.

@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter Introduction
@comment **********************************************************************

    ObjectiveAmiga  is a runtime system and class collection for the Objective
C  language  as implemented by gcc 2.5.8.  Note that you first have to install
gcc  2.5.8  (maybe  some  earlier  versions  will  work,  too) in order to use
ObjectiveAmiga.   If  you  should  get crashes from @file{ld}, try installing an @file{ld}
from  gcc 2.6.0 or later or even better install a full 2.6.0 (or later) system
and  simply  add  the  2.5.8  compilers directory.  The supplied Makefile will
choose gcc 2.5.8, no matter which versions are installed.  See below for installation
and deinstallation instructions.

    ObjectiveAmiga consists of 5 parts:

@itemize @bullet
@item
The runtime system (almost completely functional):

A  standard  Objective C  runtime  system based on libobjc.a as supplied
with gcc 2.5.8 but with some AmigaOS specific modifications.  My runtime
system  also  tries  to  be  compatible as far as possible (I can't test
it...)  with  the  original  gcc,  with  the  NeXTSTEP  [2] and  in some
points with the Stepstone [3] runtime system. Note that not the whole runtime
system is indeed contained in @file{libbjc.a}. More and more parts are being
moved over into the shared runtime library @file{objc.library} which is
required by all ObjectiveAmiga applications.

@item
The shared runtime library (under development; functional):

Traditionally Objective C programs carry a huge overhead in their code,
due to the big runtime system. ObjectiveAmiga tries to minimize this
problem by moving as many as possible parts from the linker library
into a shared library which is placed into @file{libs:} instead of being
linked to all executables directly.

@item
The basics library (very rudimentary):

A  class  library  loosely  based  on  the  basic classes of Stepstone's
ICpak101  as described in [3].  This library might depend in some places
on  my  runtime system, but it doesn't make direct use of AmigaOS.  Thus
it should be portable, at least to some degree.

@item
The AmigaOS support library (under development; functional):

This  library tries to encapsulate some AmigaOS functions in Objective C
classes. This is some kind of @code{AppKit} for ObjectiveAmiga. I am including
several classes (e.g. @code{RexxHost} and @code{FileList}) which are based on
more or less reusable C code which I have already used in multiple C programs.

@item
The GUI library (under development; functional)

This library (@code{libobjtriton.a}) encapsulates the @code{Triton GUI creation system}
into Objetive C classes in order to make it usable more easily in connection
with @code{libobjam.a}.
@end itemize


@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter Classes and functions
@comment **********************************************************************

I am sorry, but currently there is no documentation for classes and functions.
Most of the functions are modeled after NeXTSTEP functions though. These are
documented in [2]. The NeXT style extensions to the Object class are
documented in [1], the StepStone methods can be found in [3]. The classes
of @file{libobjbas.a} can be found in [3], too.

The rest (mainly @file{libobjam.a} and @file{libobjtriton.a}) are not
documented yet. Use the source, Luke! The code is obvious ;)


@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter Installation
@comment **********************************************************************

@strong{Installation:}

@enumerate
@item
Make sure that you have installed gcc 2.6.0+ and the gcc 2.5.8 executables.

@item
CD to the directory where you found this file.

@item
Check the paths in the @file{Makefile}.

@item
Create the runtime system with 'make install'.
@end enumerate

@strong{Deinstallation:}

@enumerate
@item
CD to the directory where you found this file.

@item
Type 'make remove'.
@end enumerate

@strong{Updating:}

In order to upate with a new release of ObjectiveAmiga, simply deinstall
the old release (see above) and then install the new release from scratch
(see above). The directory structures of new releases could change and
header files @file{<objc/...>} are constantly being removed one by one
when their functionality is taken over by the runtime library. Thus it
would be unwise to install a new release over an existing one.

@strong{Source release only:}

ObjectiveAmiga is currently distributed in source code only. I don't think
this is a problem since you have already gone through the trouble of installing
gcc. If gcc is up and running, it should be easy to compile and install
ObjectiveAmiga.

Please contact me when you encounter any problems with the installation or if you
prefer a binary distribution. Note that the archive of a binary distribution
would be @strong{much} bigger than the current source archive!


@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter Major changes to libobjc.a compared to the gcc 2.5.8 version
@comment **********************************************************************

@itemize @bullet
@item
Changed defintion of BOOL, YES and NO to be compatible with the AmigaOS
defintions for boolean values.

@item
Solved naming conflicts with Objective C and BOOPSI.
Especially changed `Class' to `OCClass' for compatibility with BOOPSI.
`Class' can still be used as long as @file{<intuition/classes.h>}
is not included.

@item
Added an NXZone implementation based on memory pools. Note that if you
define AMIGAOS_39 in @file{runtime/Makefile} (this is done by default),
@file{objc.library} (and thus all ObjectiveAmiga applications) requires
OS3.0. Undefine AMIGAOS_39 in order to produce an @file{objc.library}
which runs on OS2.04 and above.

@item
Added an NXAtom implementation. Currently the strings are searched
directly in the atom list which is not very fast. I will change this
to hash table searching when I find the time to do that.

@item
Added many new methods to Object, mainly in order to be more compatible
with NeXTSTEP. Added category  @code{Object (StepstoneArchiving)} for
Stepstone-type object archiving functions. This makes sense because there
is currently no NXStreams implementation, thus archiving will be used
mainly with files (which is easier with the Stepstone methods).

@item
Since the function names of GNU and NeXTSTEP implementations differ
although many functions do the same things, I have added definitions
for various NeXTSTEP functions. These will be changed to inline functions
when I find the time to do that.

@item
Removed GCC source and IN_GCC dependencies.
Changed local includes to global includes. The Objective C runtime
can now be compiled independently from GCC.
@end itemize

@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter GNU Objective C release notes for gcc 2.4
@comment **********************************************************************

@strong{Note:} This chapter contains the release notes for
the original GCC Objective C runtime which comes with GCC 2.5.8.

@section GNU Release notes

Since gcc 2.3.3 the Objective C as part of gcc has changed a lot.
This document is to explain what has been done, and a little about
how specific features differ from other implementations.  The runtime
has been completely rewritten.  The earlier runtime had several
severe bugs and was rather incomplete.  The compiler has had several
new features added as well.

This is not documentation for Objective C, it is usable to someone
who knows Objective C from somewhere else.

@section Runtime API functions

The runtime is moddeled after the NeXT Objective C runtime.  That is,
most functions have semanthics as it is known from the NeXT.  The
names, however, have changed.  All runtime API functions have names
of lowercase letters and and underscores as opposed to the
`traditional' mixed case names.  

The runtime api functions are not documented as of now.
Someone offered to write it, and did it, but we were not allowed to
use it by his university (Very sad story).  We have started writing
the documentation over again.  This will be announced appropriate
places when it becomes avilable.

@section Protocols

Protocols are now fully supported. The semanthics is exactly as on the
NeXT.  There is a flag to specify how protocols should be typechecked
when adopted to classes.  The normal typechecker requires that all
methods in a given protocol must be implemented in the class that
adopts it -- it is not enough to inherit them.  The flag
`-Wno-protocol' causes it to allow inherited methods, while
`-Wprotocols' is the default which requires them defined.

@section +initialize 

This method, if defined, is called before any other instance or class
methods of that particular class.  This method is not inherited, and
is thus not called as initializer for a subclass that doesn't define
it itself.  Thus, each +initialize method is called exactly once (or
never if no methods of that particular class is never called).
Besides this, it is allowed to have several +initialize methods, one
for each category.  The order in which these (multiple methods) are
called is not well defined.  I am not completely certain what the
semathics of this method is for other implementations, but this is
how it works for GNU Objective C.

@section Passivation/Activation/Typedstreams

This is supported in the style of NeXT TypedStream's.  Consult the
headerfile Typedstreams.h for api functions.  I (Kresten) have
rewritten it in Objective C, but this implementation is not part of
2.4, it is available from the GNU Objective C prerelease archive. 

There is one semathic difference worth noting concerning objects
stored with objc_write_object_reference (aka NXWriteObjectReference).
When these are read back in, their object is not guaranteed to be
available until the `-awake' method is called in the object that
requests that object.  To objc_read_object you must pass a pointer to
an id, which is valid after exit from the function calling it (like
e.g. an instance variable).  In general, you should not use objects
read in until the -awake method is called.

@section Acknowledgements

The GNU Objective C team: Geoffrey Knauth <gsk@@marble.com> (manager),
Tom Wood <wood@@next.com> (compiler) and Kresten Krab Thorup
<krab@@iesd.auc.dk> (runtime) would like to thank a some people for
participating in the development of the present GNU Objective C.

Paul Burchard <burchard@@geom.umn.edu> and Andrew McCallum
<mccallum@@cs.rochester.edu> has been very helpful debugging the
runtime.   Eric Herring <herring@@iesd.auc.dk> has been very helpful
cleaning up after the documentation-copyright disaster and is now
helping with the new documentation.

Steve Naroff <snaroff@@next.com> and Richard Stallman
<rms@@gnu.ai.mit.edu> has been very helpful with implementation details
in the compiler.

@section Prerelease Archive

Intermediate releases, bugfixes and additional other information of
the GNU Objective C will be available from iesd.auc.dk in the
directory /pub/ObjC.

@section Bug Reports

Please read the section `Submitting Bugreports' of the gcc manual
before you submit any bugs.


@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter The future
@comment **********************************************************************

The future could depend on @strong{you}. I am constantly working at ObjectiveAmiga,
but I do have other projects, too. Besides that there are so many parts of
ObjectiveAmiga which need to be completed that I simply cannot do everything
at once. If you want to help me with the development of ObjectiveAmiga, feel
free to contact me.

Of course I can't offer you anything for your work. I'm not getting anything either ;)


@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter Getting in touch
@comment **********************************************************************

If you want to contact me, send EMail to s.zeiger@@laren.rhein-main.de
or phone me at +49-6188-2525 after 7:00 PM CET (6:00 PM GMT).

If you really want to use SnailMail (don't expect an answer via SnailMail
from me ;), write to Stefan Zeiger, Seligenstädter Weg 24, 63796 Kahl, Germany.


@comment **********************************************************************
@chapter Bibliography
@comment **********************************************************************

@example
[1] NeXT Computers, Inc.:
    NeXTSTEP Object-Oriented Programming and the Objective C Language
    Release 3
    Addison-Wesley 1993

[2] NeXT Computers, Inc.:
    NeXTSTEP General Reference, Volume 1
    Release 3
    Addison-Wesley 1992

[3] Brad J. Cox, Andrew J. Novobilski:
    Object-Oriented Programming - An Evolutionary Approach
    Second Edition
    Addison-Wesley 1991
@end example

@contents
@bye
