@settitle @code{EditPrefs} 5.4 © 1995 Mark John Paddock
@paragraphindent 0

@node Top
@top @code{EditPrefs} 5.4 Contents
@@Remark $VER: EditPrefs_guide 5.4 (26.2.97)

@menu
* Overview    :Overview    
Quick overview

* Requirements:Requirements
Software and Hardware required
* Parameters  :Par         
Shell parameters
* Menus       :men         
Menus
* Bugs        :Bugs        
Known (and unknown) errors

* History     :History     
Version History

* Distribution:Distribution
Copyright and distribution requirements

* Index       :Index       
The index for this guide
@end menu

@@@{" ARexx         " Link "EditPrefs-rexx/Main"@} ARexx Interface

@@@{" AutoDocs      " Link "Docs/MPGui.doc/Main"@} MPGui.library AutoDocs

@node Overview
@chapter Quick overview
@cindex Overview
@cindex Quick overview

EditPrefs provides a GUI to allow editing of prefs files which
are in the format:

Setting=Value
Switch
etc.

@node Requirements
@chapter Software and Hardware required
@cindex Software required
@cindex Hardware required

Requires OS3.0+.

Also needs MPGui.library (included).

@node Par
@chapter Shell Parameters
@cindex Parameters
@cindex Shell Parameters

The command line is:

EditPrefs @ref{DIR,DIR/K/A},@ref{SAVEDIR,SAVEDIR/K/A},@ref{FILE,FILE/K/A},@ref{HELP,HELP/K/A},@ref{DEFAULT,DEFAULT/K/A},@ref{GUI,GUI/K/A},@ref{PORTNAME,PORTNAME/K}.

@menu
* DIR     :DIR     
Use Directory parameter
* SAVEDIR :SAVEDIR 
Save Directory parameter
* FILE    :FILE    
File name parameter
* HELP    :HELP    
Help file parameter
* DEFAULT :DEFAULT 
Default prefs parameter
* GUI     :GUI     
Gui definition parameter
* PORTNAME:PORTNAME
ARexx portname parameter
@end menu

@node DIR
@unnumberedsec DIR parameter
@cindex DIR parameter

This specifies the name of the directory where the prefs file
should be saved when the 'Use' gadget is clicked.

It should end with : or /.

@node SAVEDIR
@unnumberedsec SAVEDIR parameter
@cindex SAVEDIR parameter

This specifies the name of the directory where the prefs file
should be saved when the 'Save' gadget is clicked.

It should end with : or /.

@node FILE
@unnumberedsec FILE parameter
@cindex FILE parameter

This specifies the name of the file to save the prefs in
when the 'Use' or 'Save' gadget is clicked.

@node HELP
@unnumberedsec HELP parameter
@cindex HELP parameter

This specifies the name of the AmigaGuide file from
which help will be displayed when the Help key is pressed.

@node DEFAULT
@unnumberedsec DEFAULT parameter
@cindex DEFAULT parameter

This specifies the name of the file where the default prefs
are held.

The format of the file is:

; comment line

  A Comment

GadgetTitle1=SettingsPrefix=DefaultValue

  Used where "SettingsPrefix=DefaultValue" is to be written

GadgetTitle2==List Values=Default Values

  Used for an MLIST where multiple switch values are to be written.

Prefixing a line with a + means that that setting will not be reset
to the default value when "Reset To Defaults" is chosen.

@node GUI
@unnumberedsec GUI parameter
@cindex GUI parameter

This specifies the name of the GUI file to be used with MPGui.library.

Parameters should be specified as #n# (n starting as 0). These should
be in the same order as the DEFAULT file.

See @@@{"Docs/MPGui.doc" Link "Docs/MPGui.doc/Main"@}.

@node PORTNAME
@unnumberedsec PORTNAME parameter
@cindex PORTNAME parameter

This specifies the name to use as an ARexx port. If not supplied then
no ARexx port is created.

See @@@{"Docs/MPGui.doc" Link "Docs/MPGui.doc/Main"@}.

@node men
@chapter Menus
@cindex Menus

@menu
* Project :men-Project 
Project Menu
* Edit    :men-Edit    
Edit Menu
* Settings:men-Settings
Settings Menu
@end menu

@node men-Project
@unnumberedsec Project Menu
@cindex Project Menu

@menu
* Open...   :men-P-Open  
Open Menu Item
* Save As...:men-P-SaveAs
Save As... Menu Item
* Quit      :men-P-Quit  
Quit Menu Item
@end menu

@node men-P-Open
@unnumberedsubsec Project/Open... Menu Item
@cindex Open... Menu Item

Shows a file requester to open prefs from a file.

@node men-P-SaveAs
@unnumberedsubsec Project/Save As... Menu Item
@cindex Save As... Menu Item

Shows a file requester to save prefs to a file.

@node men-P-Quit
@unnumberedsubsec Project/Quit Menu Item
@cindex Quit Menu Item

Quits EditPrefs without saving prefs.

@node men-Edit
@unnumberedsec Edit Menu
@cindex Edit Menu

@menu
* Reset To Defaults:men-E-ResetD 
Reset To Defaults Menu Item
* Last Saved       :men-E-LastS  
Last Saved Menu Item
* Restore          :men-E-Restore
Restore Menu Item
@end menu

@node men-E-ResetD
@unnumberedsubsec Edit/Reset To Defaults Menu Item
@cindex Reset To Defaults Menu Item

Resets the prefs to the default settings.

@node men-E-LastS
@unnumberedsubsec Edit/Last Saved Menu Item
@cindex Last Saved Menu Item

Resets the prefs to the values that were last Saved.

@node men-E-Restore
@unnumberedsubsec Edit/Restore Menu Item
@cindex Restore Menu Item

Resests the prefs to the values that were last Used.

@node men-Settings
@unnumberedsec Settings Menu
@cindex Settings Menu

@menu
* Create Icons?:men-S-Icons
Create Icons? Menu Item
@end menu

@node men-S-Icons
@unnumberedsubsec Settings/Create Icons? Menu Item
@cindex Create Icons? Menu Item

Switches if an Icon should be saved with the prefs file.

The Icon used is:

1  The existing Icon;

2  def_prefs.info in the Use directory;

3  ENV:SYS/def_prefs.info;

4  The default Project Icon.

@node Bugs
@chapter Known (and unknown) errors
@cindex Bugs
@cindex Errors

The docs are a bit sparse.

@node History

@chapter Version History
@cindex History
@cindex Version History

@itemize
@item Version 5.4 26/2/97
@itemize
@item Now tries to open locale.library(38) to work on OS3.0.
@end itemize
@item Version 5.3 16/2/97
@itemize
@item Non beta version of 5.2.
@item Added install script and moved library location.
@end itemize
@item Version beta1 5.2 14/11/96
@itemize
@item Recompiled with SAS/C 6.57.
@item Localised.
@end itemize
@item Version 5.1 12/8/96
@itemize
@item Updated version number.
@end itemize
@item Version 5.0 8/5/96  
@itemize
@item Source code released - GNU license.
@item Only opens version 34 of amigaguide.library. Thanks to Thomas Byrer
@item Refreshes windows when a requester is open
@end itemize
@item Version 4.2 24/3/96 
@item Version 4.1 10/3/96
@itemize
@item Updated this doc.
@end itemize
@item Version 4.0 19/2/96
@itemize
@item Released to CIX.
@end itemize
@end itemize

@node Distribution
@chapter Copyright and distribution requirements
@cindex Copyright
@cindex Distribution

@example
 EditPrefs - Amiga Prefs editing program
 Copyright (C) © 1996 Mark John Paddock

 This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
 it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
 the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
 any later version.

 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
 but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
 MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
 GNU General Public License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
 Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

 mark@@topic.demon.co.uk
 mpaddock@@cix.compulink.co.uk
@end example

@code{EditPrefs} IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND SUBJECT TO CHANGE;
NO WARRANTIES ARE MADE.  ALL USE IS AT YOUR OWN RISK.  NO LIABILITY
OR RESPONSIBILITY IS ASSUMED.

@code{EditPrefs} is ©1996 Mark John Paddock

Please send any criticisms,
bugs, etc. by EMail to mark@@topic.demon.co.uk or mpaddock@@cix.compulink.co.uk.

Note - the source code to EditPrefs (not MPGui.library) is freely distributable
and is not covered by the above license.

@node Index
@unnumbered Index
@printindex cp

@bye 
