.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..
.TH VIEWPERF 1 "11 November 1994"
.SH NAME
viewperf \- OpenGL performance benchmark \- version March 8, 1996
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B viewperf
[\-aa_multi \fInum\fP \fIoffset\fP]
[\-backface] [\-bf]
[\-batch \fInum\fP] [\-bt \fInum\fP]
[\-bl[end]]
[\-c[lip]]
[\-colorper \fImode\fP] [\-cp \fImode\fP]
[\-colormaterial \fIside\fP \fImode\fP] [\-cm \fIside\fP \fImode\fP]
[\-displaylist] [\-dl]
[\-dstblendfunc \fIfunc\fP] [\-dbf \fIfunc\fP]
[\-f[lat]]
[\-facetnormal] [\-fn]
[\-fog] [\-fg]
[\-frontface] [\-ff]
[\-indirectrender] [\-ir]
[\-linesmooth] [\-ls]
[\-linestipple] [\-lp]
[\-linewidth \fIwidth\fP] [\-lw \fIwidth\fP]
[\-localview] [\-lv]
[\-magf[ilter] \fIfilter\fP]
[\-mblur \fInum\fP]
[\-mesh \fIfile\fP] [\-mh \fIfile\fP]
[\-minf[ilter] \fIfilter\fP]
[\-minperiod \fInum\fP] [\-mp \fInum\fP]
[\-nodither] [\-ndi]
[\-numframes \fInum\fP] [\-nf \fInum\fP]
[\-numilights \fInum\fP] [\-nil \fInum\fP]
[\-numllights \fInum\fP] [\-nll \fInum\fP]
[\-or[tho]]
[\-polygon \fIfile\fP] [\-pg \fIfile\fP]
[\-polymodeback \fImode\fP] [\-pmb \fImode\fP]
[\-polymodefront \fImode\fP] [\-pmf \fImode\fP]
[\-polysmooth] [\-ps]
[\-polystipple] [\-pp]
[\-quad \fIfile\fP] [\-qd \fIfile\fP]
[\-rendermode \fImode\fP] [\-rm \fImode\fP]
[\-singlebuffer] [\-sb]
[\-srcblendfunc \fIfunc\fP] [\-sbf \fIfunc\fP]
[\-texcomp \fIcomp\fP] [\-tc \fIcomp\fP]
[\-texenv \fIenv\fP] [\-te \fIenv\fP]
[\-texgen  \fIfile\fP] [\-txg \fIfile\fP]
[\-texture \fIfile\fP] [\-tx \fIfile\fP]
[\-toggle \fItype\fP] [\-tg \fItype\fP]
[\-triangle \fIfile\fP] [\-tr \fIfile\fP]
[\-vac[cum]]
[\-val[pha]]
[\-vcrit[eria] \fImode\fP]
[\-vdepthbuffer] [\-vz]
[\-vid \fIvisualid\fP]
[\-vst[encil]]
[\-walkthru] [\-wt]
[\-xwinsize \fIwidth\fP] [\-xws \fIwidth\fP]
[\-ywinsize \fIheight\fP] [\-yws \fIheight\fP]
[\-zb[uffer]]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBviewperf\fP is a benchmark for measuring OpenGL performance and was 
developed primarily by IBM with contributions from other members of the
OpenGL Performance Characterization (OPC) Committee.  A unique aspect
of \fBviewperf\fP is its overall generality.  It supports two fundamental
geometry data formats:  ASCII and binary.  The ASCII geometry data sets
are commercially available from Viewpoit DataLabs, Orem, Utah (1-800-DATASET),
from which the benchmark name was derived.  An ASCII data set can be
rendered as points, disjoint lines (vectors), lines, polygons, triangles, 
quads, or triangle fans.  The binary data set provieds an alternative to 
the ASCII format in providing faster parse times for large objects and 
supporting line strips and triangle strips in addition to points and 
disjoint lines (vectors).  In addition to \fBviewperf\fP's rendering modes
which specify the fundamental primitive type such as point, line, polygon
or triangle strip, serveral command line options are also provided to
specify how the object will be rendered.  These options include:
.HP 
\- buffer controls (framebuffer, depth buffer, alpha buffer, etc.)
.HP
\- granularity of color attributes (per frame, per primitive, per vertex)
.HP
\- shading model (flat or smooth)
.HP
\- lighting model (local/infinite lights, local/infinite viewer, two-sided lighting)
.HP
\- texture mapping
.HP
\- line and polygon stippling (patterns)
.HP
\- line and polygon anti-aliasing
.HP
\- fogging (depth-cueing)
.HP
\- clipping
.HP
\- immediate or display list modes
.HP
\- direct/indirect rendering
.P
Defining a \fBviewperf\fP run requires a geometry data set and rendering
mode in addition to all the rendering options desired.
The performance data provided by \fBviewperf\fP is reported as a frame
rate (frames/second).  Therefore, larger numbers indicate better performance.
.SH AUTHOR
Barry Minor
.B (minor@austin.ibm.com)
.SH \fBOPTIONS\fP
.IP "\fB\-aa_multi\fP \fInum\fP \fIoffset\fP" 1i
Use full scene antialiasing by drawing \fInum\fP scenes, with the eye jittered
\fIoffset\fP apart, and adding them in the accumulation buffer.
.IP "\fB\-backface\fP or \fB\-bf\fP" 1i
Cull backfacing primitives - default is off
.IP "\fB\-batch\fP \fInum\fP or \fB\-bt\fP \fInum\fP" 1i
Batch \fInum\fP primitives together per glBegin/glEnd pair.  Valid with
\fB-rm\fP \fImode\fP of \fBPOINT\fP, \fBVECTOR\fP, \fBTRIANGLE\fP, or 
\fBQUADS\fP
.IP \fB\-bl[end]\fP 1i
Enable blending - default is off
.IP \fB\-c[lip]\fP 1i
Align object on 3D clip boundary - default is off
.IP "\fB\-colormaterial\fP \fIside\fP \fImode\fP or \fB\-cm\fP \fIside\fP \fImode\fP" 1i
Set color material parameters explicitly.  \fIside\fP must be
\fBFRONT\fP (default), \fBBACK\fP, or \fBFRONT_AND_BACK\fP.
\fImode\fP must be \fBAMBIENT_AND_DIFFUSE\fP (default), \fBAMBIENT\fP,
\fBDIFFUSE\fP, \fBEMISSION\fP, or \fBSPECULAR\fP.
.IP "\fB\-colorper\fP \fImode\fP or \fB\-cp\fP \fImode\fP" 1i
Set granularity of color data to be used.  \fImode\fP must be
\fBFRAME\fP (color per frame) (default), \fBPRIMITIVE\fP (color per primitive), or
\fBVERTEX\fP (color per vertex)
.IP \fB\-di[ther]\fP 1i
Enable dithering - default is off
.IP "\fB\-displaylist\fP or \fB\-dl\fP" 1i
Rendering using display list - default is off
.IP "\fB\-dstblendfunc\fP \fIfunc\fP or \fB\-dbf\fP \fIfunc\fP" 1i
Set destination blending function.  \fIfunc\fP must be
\fBZERO\fP, \fBONE\fP, \fBSRC_COLOR\fP, \fBONE_MINUS_SRC_COLOR\fP, 
\fBSRC_ALPHA\fP, \fBONE_MINUS_SRC_ALPHA\fP (default), 
\fBDST_ALPHA\fP, or \fBONE_MINUS_DST_ALPHA\fP
.IP \fB\-f[lat]\fP 1i
Set shading model to use flat-shading - default is off (Smooth shading)
.IP "\fB\-facetnormal\fP or \fB\-fn\fP" 1i
Enable use of facet normals when lighting - default is off
.IP "\fB\-fog\fP or \fB\-fg\fP" 1i
Enable fog - default is off
.IP "\fB\-frontface\fP or \fB\-ff\fP" 1i
Enable culling of front-facing primitives - default is off
.IP "\fB\-indirectrender\fP or \fB\-ir\fP" 1i
Enable indirect rendering - default is off
.IP "\fB\-linesmooth\fP or \fB\-ls\fP" 1i
Enable line anti-aliasing - default is off
.IP "\fB\-linestipple\fP or \fB\-lp\fP" 1i
Enable line stippling - default is off
.IP "\fB\-linewidth\fP \fIwidth\fP or \fB\-lw\fP \fIwidth\fP" 1i
Set line width to \fIwidth\fP - default is 1.0
.IP "\fB\-localview\fP or \fB\-lv\fP" 1i
Enable local viewer for lighting calculations - default is off
.IP "\fB\-magf[ilter]\fP \fIfilter\fP" 1i
Set texture magnification filter.  \fIfilter\fP must be
\fBNEAREST\fP (default) or \fBLINEAR\fP
.IP "\fB\-mblur\fP \fInum\fP" 1i
Use motion blur via the accumulation buffer and enable \fInum\fP
frames of decay.
.IP "\fB\-mesh\fP \fIfile\fP or \fB\-mh\fP \fIfile\fP" 1i
Use \fIfile\fP as the mesh to be used in the test
.IP "\fB\-minf[ilter] \fIfilter\fP" 1i
Set texture minification filter.  \fIfilter\fP must be
\fBNEAREST\fP (default), \fBLINEAR\fP, \fBNEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST\fP,
\fBLINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST\fP, \fBNEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR\fP, or
\fBLINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR\fP
.IP "\fB\-minperiod\fP \fInum\fP or \fB\-mp\fP \fInum\fP" 1i
Set minimum testing period to \fInum\fP seconds
.IP "\fB\-nodither\fP or \fB\-ndi\fP" 1i
Disable dithering - default is on
.IP "\fB\-numframes\fP \fInum\fP or \fB\-nf\fP \fInum\fP" 1i
Set number of frames to render to \fInum\fP frames.  This
takes precedence over \fB-minperiod\fP if set.
.IP "\fB\-numilights\fP \fInum\fP or \fB\-nil\fP \fInum\fP" 1i
Enables \fInum\fP infinite lights - default 0
.IP "\fB\-numllights\fP \fInum\fP or \fB\-nll\fP \fInum\fP" 1i
Enables \fInum\fP local lights - default 0
.IP \fB\-or[tho]\fP 1i
Use orthographic projection - default off (Perspective projection)
.IP "\fB\-polygon\fP \fIfile\fP or \fB\-pg\fP \fIfile\fP" 1i
Use \fIfile\fP as the viewpoint object to be used in the test
.IP "\fB\-polymodeback\fP \fImode\fP or \fB\-pmb\fP \fImode\fP" 1i
Set polygon mode of back-facing polygons. \fImode\fP must be
\fBPOINT\fP, \fBLINE\fP, or \fBFILL\fP (default)
.IP "\fB\-polymodefront\fP \fImode\fP or \fB\-pmf\fP \fImode\fP" 1i
Set polygon mode of front-facing polygons. \fImode\fP must be
\fBPOINT\fP, \fBLINE\fP, or \fBFILL\fP (default)
.IP "\fB\-polysmooth\fP or \fB\-ps\fP" 1i
Enable polygon anti-aliasing - default is off
.IP "\fB\-polystipple\fP or \fB\-pp\fP" 1i
Enable polygon stippling -default is off
.IP "\fB\-quad\fP \fIfile\fP or \fB\-qd\fP \fIfile\fP" 1i
Use \fIfile\fP as the viewpoint object to be used in the test
.IP "\fB\-rendermode\fP \fImode\fP or \fB\-rm\fP \fImode\fP" 1i
Set primitive to use when rendering data.  \fImode\fP must be
\fBPOINT\fP, \fBVECTOR\fP, \fBLINE\fP (default), \fBPOLYGON\fP,
\fBTMESH\fP, \fBTFAN\fP, \fBTRIANGLE\fP, or \fBQUAD\fP
.IP "\fB\-singlebuffer\fP or \fB\-sb\fP" 1i
Use single-buffered visual or front buffer of double-bufferd visual
.IP "\fB\-srcblendfunc\fP \fIfunc\fP or \fB\-sbf\fP \fIfunc\fP" 1i
Set source blending function.  \fIfunc\fP must be
\fBZERO\fP, \fBONE\fP, \fBSRC_COLOR\fP, \fBONE_MINUS_SRC_COLOR\fP, 
\fBSRC_ALPHA\fP (default), \fBONE_MINUS_SRC_ALPHA\fP, 
\fBDST_ALPHA\fP, \fBONE_MINUS_DST_ALPHA\fP, or \fBSRC_ALPHA_SATURATE\fP
.IP "\fB\-texcomp\fP \fIcomp\fP or \fB\-tc\fP \fIcomp\fP" 1i
Set number of texture components to \fIcomp\fP.  \fIcomp\fP must be
between 1 and 4 inclusively - default 3.
.IP "\fB\-texenv\fP \fIenv\fP or \fB\-te\fP \fIenv\fP" 1i
Set texture environment.  \fIenv\fP must be \fBDECAL\fP (default),
\fBMODULATE\fP, or \fBBLEND\fP
.IP "\fB\-texture\fP \fIfile\fP or \fB\-tx\fP \fIfile\fP" 1i
Use \fIfile\fP as the texture image.  \fIfile\fP must be in mtv
format.  Viewperf will specify the texture coordinates in this mode.
.IP "\fB\-texgen\fP \fIfile\fP or \fB\-txg\fP \fIfile\fP" 1i
Use \fIfile\fP as the texture image.  \fIfile\fP must be in mtv
format.  TexGen will be used to specify the texture coordinates in
this mode.
.IP "\fB\-toggle\fP \fItype\fP or \fB\-tg\fP \fItype\fP" 1i
Set attribute toggling per primitive.  \fItype\fP must be
\fBBLEND\fP, \fBDEPTH_TEST\fP, \fBDITHER\fP, \fBLIGHTING\fP,
\fBLINE_WIDTH\fP, \fBLINE_STIPPLE\fP, \fBPOLYGON_STIPPLE\fP,
or \fBMATRIX\fP (multmatrix) - default is none
.IP "\fB\-triangle\fP \fIfile\fP or \fB\-tr\fP \fIfile\fP" 1i
Use \fIfile\fP as the viewpoint object to be used in the test
.IP \fB\-vac[cum]\fP 1i
Explicitly request an accumulation buffer in the visual - default is off
.IP \fB\-val[pha]\fP 1i
Explicitly request an alpha buffer in the visual - default is off
.IP "\fB\-vcrit[eria]\fP \fImode\fP" 1i
Set visual selection criteria.  \fImode\fP must be \fBEXACT\fP
or \fBMIN\fP (default)
.IP "\fB\-vdepthbuffer\fP or \fB\-vz\fP" 1i
Explicitly request a depth buffer in the visual - default is off
.IP "\fB\-vid\fP \fIvisualid\fP" 1i
Explicitly request visual number \fIvisualid\fP
.IP \fB\-vst[encil]\fP 1i
Explicitly request a stencil buffer in the visual - default is off
.IP "\fB\-walkthru\fP or \fB\-wt\fP" 1i
Enable walkthru mode (uses a .wlk file to position viewer in and
around object).
.IP "\fB\-xwinsize\fP \fIwidth\fP or \fB\-xws\fP \fIwidth\fP" 1i
Set window width to be \fIwidth\fP
.IP "\fB\-ywinsize\fP \fIheight\fP or \fB\-yws\fP \fIheight\fP" 1i
Set window height to be \fIheight\fP
.IP \fB\-zb[uffer]\fP 1i
Enable depth buffer testing - default is off
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Let's say that you want to display a depthcued skull with the depth
buffer enabled.  Assume you have a data set (\fBskullM\fP) in the 
appropriate polygonal ASCII format for 
\fBviewperf\fP and the three files (\fBskullM.vnm\fP,
\fBskullM.ele\fP, and \fBskullM.coo\fP) that form the data
set are in the current directory with \fBviewperf\fP.
The following command lines are equivalent:
.P
\fBviewperf -polygon skullM -rendermode LINE -fog -zbuffer\fp
.P
\fBviewperf -pg skullM -rm LINE -fg -zb\fp
.P
To render the same image using disjoint lines, \fBglBegin(GL_LINES)\fP,
instead of line strips, \fBglBegin(GL_LINE_STRIP\fP, as above, switch the
rendermode from \fBLINE\fP to \fBVECTOR\fP:
.P
\fBviewperf -polygon skullM -rendermode VECTOR -fog -zbuffer\fp
.P
\fBviewperf -pg skullM -rm VECTOR -fg -zb\fp
.SH AVAILABILITY
.SH FILES
.SH SEE ALSO
.SH BUGS
