.TH EMAIL2SMSSEND 1
.SH NAME
email2smssend - Send your emails to your GSM with smssend

.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBemail2smssend\fP [\fIoptions\fP] -- [\fIsmssend options\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBemail2smssend\fP allows your emails to be sent to your GSM. It's a perl script who launch smssend(1). You can control the maximum length of the SMS and the maximum number of messages to send if one is not enough.

It's designed to be easy to add in your .forward file.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS Options for email2smssend
.TP
\fB-ms, --msg-max\fP \fIn\fP
Set the maximum number of characters by SMS to \fIn\fP.

.TP
\fB-mm, --max-msg\fP \fIn\fP
Set the maximum number of SMS to send by email to \fIn\fP (\fIn\fP must be less than 10).

.TP
\fB-i, --index\fP
If set, each SMS (part of the same email) will be prefix by a sequence number.

.TP
\fB-r, --reverse\fP
If set, SMS will be send in reverse order. This is usefull in some case.

.TP
\fB-h, --help\fP
Display this help and exit.

.TP
\fB-V, --version\fP
Display the version number and the copyright and exit.

.SS Options smssend
.TP
See the \fBsmssend\fP man page for more informations.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
This script is designed to be easy to add to your .forward. You just have to add a line like:

.PP
| email2smssend -i -ms 130 -mm 4 -- [\fIprovider name\fP] [\fIprovider options\fP]

.PP
In this case, emails will be sent by parts of 130 characters, with a limit of 4 SMS by email. See smssend(1) for the meaning of \fIprovider name\fP and \fIprovider options\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jean-Baptiste Sarrodie <jaiguru@maldoror.freesurf.fr>.

.SH SEE ALSO
smssend(1)
